[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here today with
david rubinstein who is the co-founder
of carlyle group which is one of the
most successful
firms ever in terms of private equity
really pretty extraordinary tale and the
author of the new book
how to lead david welcome to the show
my pleasure thank you for having me
absolutely man i am super excited to
talk to you about the idea of leadership
which is something that um i think is
not only important in business but just
generally in life if you had to put into
a single sentence
what leadership is what what its nature
is if you will what would you say
leadership is
generally it's the effort of one or more
people to convince a larger group of
people to follow them in doing something
that the leaders think is a good thing
for everybody to do it could be social
policy it could be a political effort it
could be a business venture but
basically leaders are people who try to
convince other people that it would be
in everybody's best interest to follow
the leaders views on what should be done
and do you so when i think about the
military and their views around
leadership there's a sense of
distributed leadership where anybody
should be able and willing to step into
that role when it makes sense for you
know a dynamic situation as it unfolds
do you view leadership like that should
everybody be
developing that skill or is this
something that you know hey if you have
a particular path in life you're trying
to follow it might be useful but
otherwise you don't need to bother
well there's seven and a half billion
people on the face of the earth and in
some respects almost everybody's a
leader in some way if you're a parent
you're a leader
you might be a leader of a girl scout
troop or you might be president of the
united states so everybody has probably
some roles where they play as a leader
is it good for everybody to want to be a
leader well i think leadership is good
if we had everybody being a follower
they have a lot of chaos
now in the military uh leadership is
more complicated because those people
who are leading in the military they
have people's lives at stake if you're
in combat and you're not doing a good
job in the military as a combat leader
people can die not the same in other
parts of life to some extent but i do
think that uh people who want to be
leaders
can develop and mature and improve their
leadership skills and that's part of
what i wrote about how people became
great leaders after
some starts that were not so wonderful
some mistakes and some failures and
things like that
so in the book you break down what are
the sort of core tenets of or aspects of
leadership um
in the book were they in order of
importance
no they were not necessarily in the
order of importance but they were you
know i they were 13 that i kind of
thought were important and just to
review the examples of them luck is very
important because you need some luck to
get anywhere i think
you need to have some persistence you
need to have a focus on what you want to
do you need to know how to cooperate
with other people share the credit you
need to how to communicate well with
people either orally or writing or some
other method you also need to
i think
be ethical i think some humility helps a
lot obviously we know arrogant leaders
that have succeeded but generally i
think humility helps rising to the
occasion when a crisis occurs is very
important so there are many different
skill sets that i think are common with
the people i interviewed so in the book
you start with luck just now you started
with luck again uh which feeds into your
notion of being humble as well which i
know is one of the um the traits that
you listed and i think that's really
powerful
but if you had to sort of rank order so
for instance one of them that you
mentioned specifically in the book is um
hard work and long hours which i
resonate with very much uh and i'm just
sort of curious if you were to pick you
know maybe the top three or four um what
you think those are
well look um nobody ever won a nobel
prize working five days a week nine to
five if you're gonna do something great
it takes a lot of time and hard work is
important so there aren't people there
are not people sitting around just get
lucky and all of a sudden the world goes
to them and says i want you to be our
leader it doesn't usually happen second
i think it is focus you can't do a
hundred things and do them all well you
can do one thing extremely well maybe
two or three reasonably well but focus
on what you want to do and then i think
you've got to just be willing to
overcome failure
because everybody's going to fail and if
you give up if you fail and you don't
persist in your idea you're not going to
be a leader and those are things that
are very very important which is to say
uh be persistent uh focus on something
and again you have to want to be a
leader you can't sit in your home and
say you know i don't really want to be a
leader and all of a sudden people are
going to say you know you're our leader
that doesn't usually happen
yeah your own story i find to be really
um powerful when taking these principles
and looking at what they look like in
real life so i first think i had known
of the carlisle group but to be honest i
didn't know who founded it and i knew of
you as an interviewer and so when i
found out that they were sort of one in
the same it was really kind of a
thrilling moment you're you have a
sort of a really fun personality a
really your delivery is dry but your
humor is really really fun
and
to
catch you sort of at a later point in
your life where i was old enough to be
aware of you and what you were doing um
and then to sort of look back at how you
had approached life and become
successful i'd love to talk about
perseverance in your own life what that
journey was like um you know some of the
early i don't know if you'd categorize
them as failings in politics getting out
of that you know not loving your time in
law getting out of that and then really
finding your footing um how did you
conceptualize that journey did you think
i must persevere and you sort of already
had that or were you just afraid of
failure
well it's you know when you look back at
your life when you're my age i'm now 71
an age too young to run for president
united states probably
if you can say okay this is how it
worked out and i can explain it but when
you're living your life you don't look
at those things that way so when you're
living your life you're kind of living
in the moment and one thing didn't work
and i tried something else sometimes
that worked sometimes it didn't and i
got very very lucky in my life
and then i tried to do many different
things and some of them you know i was
happy to do and i they worked out well
some just were failed miserably and you
know that's life and you know you just
have to get used to it but i i
think i attribute a lot of my success to
luck and a lot of that uh to also coming
from modest means if you grow up in an
extremely wealthy family if your father
is worth 10 billion dollars you might
not have the drive to do the kind of
things you need to do to win a nobel
prize or a pulitzer prize or something
else if you grow up in a modest family
uh you know if you're going to get
anywhere in life you got to do it on
your own and so when you're growing up
and not a wealthy family you might not
think it's an advantage but actually is
a big advantage because you know if
you're going to get anywhere you've got
to do it on your own and when you get to
do it on your own and you do succeed
people are going to say well you did it
on your own not because your father your
mother i'd love to push on that a little
bit so i've heard you in interviews talk
about that before
and
what is it about growing up wealthy that
placates people and what is it growing
up because i don't you've always said
that one of the greatest things ever
happened to you is having two parents
that loved you unconditionally so you
had that which i'm sure would have been
incredibly beautiful
so
what was missing that made you so hungry
and then
if money isn't the sort of end-all
be-all it doesn't deliver happiness why
aren't people hungry when they have
wealth
well on that question i think if you
know that you are not going to starve or
you're not going to be on the street uh
because your father or mother is very
wealthy i don't think you have quite the
drive now obviously there are exceptions
there are people who are successful who
come from wealthy families but mega mega
wealthy families the wealthiest families
in the in the country in any given
country in any given time
generally they don't produce the the the
superstars so look at the people who are
the most successful people today in our
society in politics or business
athletics whatever it might be usually
they didn't come from a forbes 400
family as a general rule of thumb so in
in my own case i came from modest means
as you as you alluded to my father
wasn't a high school graduate or nor was
my mother um
bill gates is gonna has three children
they all seem to be well adjusted they
all seem to be doing well whether they
can produce the kind of great success
that he produced who knows but if they
they do people will say well sure his
father was bill gates so my own case i
have three children they're all
extremely well educated in the best
schools harvard duke stanford and so
forth but you know whatever they achieve
sometimes people will say well maybe
it's because their father was helpful or
your father was wealthy now they
wouldn't say that's really fair and
maybe they're right but there's no doubt
that people will think that
do you think that deflates them because
i would think well now they have
something to push back on to achieve at
a level to show people i got out from
under my dad's shadow
why doesn't that drive them to do even
more
well i think it's complicated for a less
complicated for a girl than a boy i
think if you're a man and you have a son
the son probably is going to be seen as
more in the shadow of a very prominent
father
i think it's a little bit different for
daughters for lots of reasons i could
explain so maybe it's not quite as
challenging but you know of course uh
you've seen many times where famous men
have children who say or sons and
daughters who i say i don't want
anything with a family business i want
to be on my own i don't want anything to
do with the family's wealth and
sometimes these people to have nice
lives they don't generally don't change
the world in quite the way that maybe
the father the mother did
did you think about when you were
raising your kids this is one of the
reasons i don't have kids by the way was
so growing up um
my parents couldn't give me all the
things that i wanted but i always had
food my parents loved me to death so i'm
beyond fortunate with how i grew up but
there was something about not being able
to have the things that i wanted
that really pushed me to achieve more
than anybody in my family had achieved
and so when i generated wealth in my own
life and thought about raising kids that
grew up in a family that would have been
affluent
i really worried about having to
artificially create an environment that
was difficult for them in order for them
to succeed i wasn't sure that i had the
fortitude if i'm honest to create
hardships for them where i didn't need
to did you think about that like have
you done things to sort of make it quote
unquote difficult on your kids
well uh i wasn't quite as wealthy as i
later became when i was having my
children i was reasonably wealthy by
normal human centers but not by the
standards of today so i tried very much
to shield them from the wealth but
eventually they figured it out and you
know they you know they they kind of
accepted it they know i wasn't giving
them gigantic trust funds or buying them
lots of things that they really didn't
need so i think they got a good
education and that's probably the best
you can do but as you suggest raising
children is complicated as you may have
heard me say jackie kennedy liked to say
that raising children is a complicated
thing and if you mess up raising your
children nothing else in life really
matters and it's true your ultimate
legacy is not a building named after you
or a scholarship named after you or but
it's your children in many ways and so
they're going to be around a lot longer
than you are in most cases and you know
raising children is challenging for
wealthy people as we have seen many
people uh you live in california
many people are very famous hollywood
types they have famously had some let's
say less successful children than they
might have wanted in some cases because
they have a lot of wealth a lot of uh
things that that are not necessarily
conducive to great success
out of curiosity what are the things
that are conducive to great success
beyond money because you've talked very
eloquently about you know billionaires
being some of the most tortured people
that you've met
what what are those things that lead
somebody to be quote unquote successful
in my view success is happiness the most
elusive thing in life is personal
happiness thomas jefferson wrote about
the pursuit of happiness he never told
us how to actually get it but
finding somebody that's happy with their
life is really really good so if you
ever meet a poor person and they are
very happy with what they're doing why
should you say your life isn't
successful they're very happy with what
they're doing if you meet a very wealthy
person and he or she is tortured with
their money and they don't know what to
do with it their children hate them
everybody hates them is that person
successful i don't really think so i
think success comes about when you're
happy because that's the point of life
to some extent is being happy that's why
we're all here i guess to some extent we
want to make the life better for other
people but to some extent if you are
making life better for other people
you're going to be happy in my view how
do you deal with the transient nature of
happiness and do you distinguish between
happiness and say fulfillment
well sure happiness can be a momentary
thing in some cases you're happy that
something happened a big success
happened here you did something you got
an award or something your children call
you up and say they're proud of you if
that ever happens but fulfillment means
that you're content and contentment
really is a more long-lasting kind of
thing you know to be fulfilled i think
as being uh something that can goes on
for quite some time happiness can be
more transitory you're happy one day
you're unhappy the next day but when
you're fulfilled i think it's more
long-lasting and probably a better thing
so how did you craft that message for
your kids one thing that it seems like
you've really established yourself as in
your career somebody who's deeply
persuasive
able to like you said a good leader get
people to go somewhere that's going to
be good for them how did you set your
kids up for that for pursuing happiness
or fulfillment
there was a famous book that was written
called presidential power and in it it
was written by a man named richard
neustadt and he said look president
doesn't have that much power he only has
the power to persuade
and uh as i thought about it that's what
life is all about persuading somebody to
do something go on your show read your
book uh greet it with your theories life
is all about persuading people even
albert einstein couldn't come up with e
equals m c squared and everybody said
you're right he had to go persuade
people that he was correct about that so
persuasion is very important so there
are three ways to persuade and
communicate one
orally you're a good talker you're
martin luther king you're abraham
lincoln a good writer you're mark twain
you write very well
but the most powerful way is by
leading by example persuading by example
so with my kids i was a hard worker and
i tried to educate them about the value
of hard work i read a lot i try to
educate them about the value of reading
uh treating other people well i try to
educate them but children learn by
seeing what their parents do if your
parents are are doing certain things and
they're telling kids to do the opposite
that's probably not going to work so you
have to kind of do what you're you're
trying to get your kids to do and lead
by example now nobody's a perfect parent
i'm certainly not but um you know trying
to lead by example is probably what i
tried to do and and to some extent uh it
worked and you know my kids are not
perfect i'm not perfect and everybody
has their flaws but i think generally
they're reasonably happy and generally
they're reasonably successful by normal
human standards at this stage in their
life i'm glad you brought up lincoln so
lincoln is somebody i've heard you talk
a lot about um and
if if i misquote you please let me know
but i'm i'm almost certain i remember
you saying that you consider lincoln the
greatest american if not one of the
greatest yes
so what is it one for people that don't
know you well your your um
the way that you leverage your
understanding of history and bring it
into a context today i find really
extraordinary what is it about him that
makes him the greatest american
well the time that he was elected he was
of course not that well known he had
never held
any office other than after two years he
was a congressman uh in any federal
office except for a congressman for two
years
the country was falling apart seven
states seceded before he even took
office um just after his election and so
the country was falling apart he decided
to keep the country together now
somebody else might have said hey you
want to go to secede so south go away we
take your slaves and you live that life
we don't want that here he didn't say
that i said i want to keep the country
together and he fought a war we had 600
to 700 000 men and women die in that war
very costly but he kept the country
together and of course in the process of
trying to win the war he freed the
slaves through the emancipation
proclamation subsequently for the 13th
amendment so he held the country
together and he did so with eloquence
and enormous amount of humility had i
met him which i never did
i would have said uh tell us did you win
the civil war and he would say no i
didn't win it uh the american people won
it in other words he wouldn't have
bragged about himself i can't see him
sitting down and say hey guess what i
did today i won the civil war i don't
see him saying that um very humble
person and uh and i think that was
really an admirable quality and and i
think
uh now
had there been no civil war
abraham lincoln would probably not be
sending a great president you have to
rise to the occasion if fdr had been
president for eight years and we never
went into world war ii i suspect he
wouldn't be seen such a great president
you have to rise the occasion when
circumstances present it and so if
you're abraham lincoln but nothing bad
happens during your time as president
probably you know there's not much you
have to do that really earns you a great
credit as a great great leader that's
why i think he was the greatest leader
that's interesting so i want to more
understand so one
why wouldn't it have been smarter to let
the cell secede given how much loss of
life there was
and trust me i'm glad he held it
together so this i i don't have an
agenda in that direction i'm just
curious as to um why wasn't it the right
answer just to be like hey
go do your thing and you know we'll
avoid the bloodshed
abraham lincoln had a uh i would say a
uh
fetish almost with the with the
declaration of independence and the
constitution he just believed that they
were the holy writ and he therefore
thought look this country was supposed
to be one country that's what the
declaration of independence was about
that's what the constitution's about i'm
not going to be the person that allows
it to fall apart so i think he wanted to
hold it together for that reason he as
you probably know he was not interested
in freeing the slaves in fact in his
initial inaugural address he said i
support the 13th amendment the 13th
amendment at that time was something
that james buchanan his predecessor was
wanted to have become part of the
constitution what did the 13th amendment
say it said slavery is the law of the
land and shouldn't be changed so lincoln
endorsed that in his initial inaugural
address later he realized that that it
really wasn't going to be helpful to
continue to have slavery and still be
able to win the war he needed uh people
to to leave the south slaves and
ultimately join the union army among
other things and the south and southern
slaves were also helping fuel the war
machine so that was another factor
lincoln was not a uh i'd say lincoln was
not an abolitionist during his lifetime
really but he ultimately came to the
conclusion it was the right thing to do
though i should point out he didn't
think that blacks and whites could live
together he wanted to colonize them that
was a euphemism for you move into
another country and even when he was
president united states even when he was
doing the emancipation proclamation he
was talking to blacks about moving to
let's say panama or someplace else in
central america he didn't think they
could live together with whites
you take a really unflinching look at
history which has made you one of the
most interesting voices in this space
for me um you've you've done what you
call patriotic philanthropy so you've
gone in and um helped update national
monuments and things like that um thomas
jefferson's um ranch being one of them
and i know a big thing for you was to um
make sure that the the signs of his him
being a slave owner were there and built
up as well so that people didn't sort of
begin to rewrite history um why do you
think that's important why don't we sort
of whitewash this stuff tell a better
story about it that's more in line with
values today
well the theory of history is that if
you study the past it will help you in
the future as george santiano famous
harvard philosopher said those people
that don't remember history are
condemned to relive it so the theory of
civilization is you advance it's kind of
darwinian we're theoretically advancing
as we move forward well we're not going
to advance if we don't know the mistakes
of the past so that's the general
premise
second
if you um if i buy the magna carta and i
put it on a computer slide and you can
look at it it's not going to have the
same impact
as if you go visit it you see it in
person you have somebody telling you
about it there but most likely after you
see it in person you're going to go read
about it so by preserving buildings or
preserving documents or books you're
likely to have more people
see them in person and because the human
brain treats that differently than
seeing on a computer slide i think it's
going to help people get educated about
history and if you've read some of the
things i've said
it's amazing how little people know
about our own history um and one of the
examples i like to cite the most is this
when you want to be a citizen nice you
seem you're a native born american i
don't know okay native born american so
you're automatically a citizen of this
country but if you're not native born
and you want to be a citizen as eight
hundred thousand people a year are
becoming
upcoming citizens you have to take a
citizenship test there are a hundred
potential questions you can study for
them you then go to the court and they
ask you 10 of those 100 you have to get
six of them right
if you're 65 or older they tell you the
10 questions in advance
[Laughter]
91 of the people that take that test
pass great
the same test was given to um i think
was 41 000 americans in all 50 states
nato they were native born
they were asked to pass the same test
and in 49 out of 50 states the citizens
couldn't a majority couldn't pass it
these are questions like who was the
first president united states how many
branches are in the federal government
and things like that so we don't know
much about history and civics we don't
you can graduate from any college united
states today without having to take an
american history course so people don't
know much about our country's government
and uh it's sad but that's the truth
yeah that that is crazy i had never
heard anybody quote that stat before you
also have some terrifying statistics
around literacy in the u.s um which i am
absolutely startled by
so
when you think about um america when you
think about sort of the state of where
we are right now again i don't want to
misquote you so please if i get this
wrong but i think i heard you say that
you believe america is the greatest
nation on earth
true false oh absolutely and i think
most americans would agree with that uh
in fact i'm writing a book now about
what it means to be an american
tell me more
okay
so i have a couple qualities i think
when i say these are genes of being an
american what is what are the american
genes now every country by definition
every country's citizens think it's the
best country because they don't leave
um you know for example less than five
percent of the people on the face of the
earth are living in a country that they
weren't born in so
yes hard to believe so uh think about
this uh right now what would you say is
the most important thing about being an
american well there's many different
things right to free speech the right to
uh free freedom of religion separation
of powers in our government things like
that well in my book i'm talking about
these what i call the genes of american
dna but i had a survey done by the
harris research organization they ask
americans what they thought is the most
important thing about being an american
and interestingly the thing that just
came back in the survey it'll be in the
book is that the americans think that
the most important quality of being an
american is the right to free speech now
i think that's a very important quality
i'm not sure i would have said number
one but certainly in the top ten but
that's what people really are valuing
about our country and then clearly um
americans uh you know we have 800 000
people a year coming to united states to
live how many people do you think are
leaving the united states a year to go
somewhere else you know maybe a few
thousand probably for tax purposes
that's the main reason so people think
it is the best country and i think it's
the best country but there's no doubt
that the country with the highest uh
happiness quotient is not the united
states it's probably denmark or or
finland or something like that so
obviously small countries that have
other appeals but if you're talking
about a big country i think there's
nothing comparable to united states oh
man so we got to go we got to go a
little deeper on that you've been all
over the place all
over the place and if people know your
history raising money all over the world
really sort of inventing that model um
very extraordinary so for you to look
back with the breadth of travel that
you've done and still make that
statement i'm super curious so if we're
not scoring as high on the sort of
happiness quotient is somewhere like
maybe denmark um and you say that
success really is happiness um
what is it that we have here as a
country and it sounds like part of it's
just scale that we're able to you know
what we're doing goes bigger um and and
i'm asking all of this in the context of
i think we're living through a time
right now where some percentage i don't
know what percentage some percentage are
not sure that america is a great country
full stop um and i i do it's given me so
much and i feel such a deep sense of
obligation to make sure that you know
people have those opportunities and i'm
i would love to see if you can
articulate it in a way that i'm not sure
that i could how that dna
is
serving americans
well the dna is serving america in if
you are probably like you or me white
reasonably well educated
reasonably prosperous and so forth
but the reason that people in denmark
are probably happier or happier overall
or finland than the united states is
they don't have an economic underclass
the way we do so in our country we have
a very large percentage of the
population that is um let's say
illiterate a large percentage of people
who are are in jail higher than any
percentage in any other country in the
world we have a large percentage of
people that have given up on their
ability to rise from the bottom and
social mobility is not available to them
and of course income inequality is
greater here than at any time it's ever
been uh in our country's history
probably even greater than the great
depression now so a lot of people are
not that happy with this country they're
not leaving the country because they do
believe in probably in the american
dream that maybe they'll rise up but for
some people at the bottom they think the
chance of rising up is just not
realistic but they don't have a chance
to leave the country either so the
country has a lot of great things we
have we influence the world as you
suggest i travel around the world a lot
when i go anywhere people want to know
what's going on in the united states
because our culture has affected the
culture of the world our technology our
politics our government our military
really is is influential all over the
world so people want to know about this
country and it's an extraordinary
country but it has its flaws as we all
know and so our job is to try to fix the
flaws if we can
okay so i definitely want to get to the
flaws that are fixable but first um you
said that in the poll people said that
the thing they most valued about america
was freedom of speech but you didn't
think you would put that as number one
what would you put as number one well
the things i think are two most
important ones and are freedom and lib
and equality now the the founding
fathers said and thomas jefferson effect
said that's what the country's all about
when he wrote that famous sentence in
the declaration of penance saying that
all men are quite equal he was a slave
owner and he really meant all white men
who were christian are are equal if they
have some money uh but he didn't say it
that way so we've taken that creed what
something he didn't really mean and
we've made it the country's creed and
it's a goal we live to and i think many
people have grown up thinking yes we
should have equal opportunity for
everybody equal rights for everybody
we're not we haven't achieved that but
that i think is what is the most
important concept of america equality
and then freedom to do what you want it
can be freedom of speech freedom of
religion uh freedom to pursue a career
you want i think those two are the
essence of what the country is mostly uh
the backbone of which there are other
things like separation of powers and and
other important things in our country's
history and the way it works you know uh
for elections voting making your vote be
meaningful those kind of things but i i
would say freedom of speech is amazingly
what people really really think is the
highest and most important quality of
our country
so when you think about um a promise was
made with the declaration of
independence and and i'm curious so i've
never thought this thought before so
this may be totally ridiculous and i
certainly don't have your understanding
of history but as somebody who writes a
lot one thing i know is when you go to
write something oftentimes part of the
reason i'm sure he left out the detail
is it wouldn't have the sort of poetic
impact that he wanted it to have and i
do when i look at sort of the the the
founding documents that this country is
based on and how in my estimation
no question there are flaws but in my
estimation like we we have continued a
march towards making things better
making things more equal allowing more
and more people to rise up um that
there's there was dna implanted whether
intentionally or unintentionally that
opened the door to us sort of making
good on that initial promise
do you think that um
there's there's two questions here one
the one i was going to ask may not be as
interesting but i'll just say it out
loud do you think that thomas jefferson
in trying to get the poetry of it right
realized he needed a grander vision to
capture the human spirit and that that
was why he wrote it the way that he
wrote it um
and we obviously see the knock-on effect
and then
well we'll we'll stop let me answer that
yeah thomas jefferson was 33 years old
um his wife was very ill he didn't want
to be at the second continental congress
and he wanted to be back in virginia
where he thought more important things
were getting done and also he could tend
to his wife but he's agreed to stay for
a while they gave him the assignment
they gave him 17 days to write up a some
propaganda statement about why we're
going to break away from england like
most people he took the last three days
and the first 14 days he was busy so
with three days to go he's writing in
his uh little rented house there with
two slaves or with them and he didn't
have any books with him really and he
just kind of wrote it from memory and
what he believed was the common sense
so he didn't have footnotes and all
kinds of other things after he submitted
it to people and the congress voted on
it they made 60 changes he said they
mutilated it in fact he was so upset for
eight or nine years he wouldn't tell
people that he actually wrote it because
he was embarrassed the way it was
written but it turns out that the
preamble which was ignored at the time
became the most famous sentence in the
english language we hold these truths to
be self-evident that all men are created
equal
that became the most famous sentence in
the english language and at the time
nobody paid attention to it because it
was the preamble to the key the part
they really wanted to talk about which
is the sins of king george later um it
became the creed of our country because
people increasingly said all men are
created equal well maybe we mean all men
and all women maybe we mean all white
men and all white women and all black
men and all black women so it got to be
expanded and maybe it also meant that
people have freedom so that you have
freedom for people who are gay lesbian
jewish whatever catholic whatever
everybody has certain freedom so it got
it evolved and uh you know it just uh
you know it became something that he was
synonymous with and when he died he said
on his tombstone that's what he really
wanted us first the author of the
declaration of independence well i don't
know that he intended it to be as famous
as it became in fact john adams hated
the fact that he became so famous
because john adams thought we he was the
person who was most responsible for the
revolutionary war declaration and he
wanted july the second when that was
voted on to be the day we celebrate but
then we voted on we we we celebrate july
the 4th why is that well uh uh one year
after july the second in 1777 they were
going to celebrate but they forgot it
was july the 7th so they didn't get
around to it then the third they said
we're organizing on the fourth so when
the fourth became the day they celebrate
it was synonymous with the declaration
of independence which would approve that
day and not the july second thing and
that's why adams and and jefferson
didn't get along that well because they
they fought over what was more important
that's july second resolution or the
july 4th
declaration that yeah when you put it
into the context where you can feel real
humans behind the scenes doing this
stuff it becomes i think far more
interesting so
country has flaws
how do we go about fixing those and is
that
like do you see each of us needing to
play a role and if so like how do you
see you as but one example of how a
person can contribute how do you see
yourself contributing to that
our country actually moves forward
reasonably well by listening to people
because we have enormous amounts of
public opinion polling we have voting we
have social media so i do think you can
influence people in congress and
influence governors and state
legislators i think you can but it takes
persistence you can't just write one
letter to the op-ed page and think
that's going to solve problems you got
to really be persistent and those people
that have persisted uh have succeeded
for example uh when our country was
created the idea that women could own
property was considered ridiculous that
they could vote or being government was
even more ridiculous so uh the the the
seneca falls convention of 1848 kind of
began the effort to get women the right
to vote 1848 and then the it wasn't
until 1919 that we really got the right
to for women to vote so it took a long
time and anything that's heroic does
take a long time to do and no one person
can do it but i do think that the
government is willing to listen it just
takes time and now increasingly takes
some money
this idea that it takes more than one
person that you need a team
one of the things that
abraham lincoln was so famous for and i
have been very inspired by this as a
business leader is the idea of a team of
rivals um what was that how did he use
that and do you think that kind of thing
is important
let me explain for those who may not be
that familiar with it there have been
more books written about abraham lincoln
any other american by far
and so when doris kearns goodman decided
to write another book about abraham
lincoln people rolled their eyes and she
rolled her eyes too what can i do that's
going to be so unique so finally
she told steven spielberg she was
writing this book about abraham lincoln
she didn't know what it was going to be
he said i want to do a movie but abraham
lincoln he optioned the movie the book
was finished 10 years later whoa ten
years later and actually the movie
lincoln that spielberg did is only about
five pages of the book it's only about
the 13th amendment passage in the house
but the book is obviously more
comprehensive but as she was reading the
book and doing the research she realized
wait a second lincoln was considered not
very smart and oaf ill um you know
illiterate in some ways and and not a
very uh
well-educated person let's say by the
people that were going to be the nominee
supposedly for the republican party in
1860 they were much more prominent
people but they looked down on him they
just didn't treat him very well they
thought he was uh funny looking and so
forth ultimately when he got the
nomination was elected president he put
these people in the cabinet so we had
the security to say even though you
think i'm not that smart or not that
good looking or not that well-educated i
want you to be my advisor in the end
these people became his greatest friends
now you need a lot of security to do
that you can't be insecure if you're
insecure you surround yourself with
people that are not that good and great
people surround themselves with people
that are smarter than them and that's
what he did
yeah that concept so the way that it's
played out in my business life is what i
always tell people i want everyone to
challenge my ideas if they think they
have something to offer and not to give
me any deference for being the ceo and
my thing is if if it's a good idea it
can withstand criticism and if it's a
bad idea then that won't be able to
withstand criticism which is why people
wouldn't want it and i certainly would
want to know if i have a weak idea how
did he keep that from turning into chaos
well in in the case of um
of lincoln uh lincoln listened to people
though i say in the emancipation
proclamation his advisors really didn't
think that was such a great idea so
sometimes you have to be a leader and
say i'm going to persist and you have to
kind of support me if you can if you
can't i understand but i have to go
ahead and do certain things in the
business world is true uh as well in the
business world if you wait for consensus
you'll never get done if steve jobs had
waited for consensus on the uh personal
computer uh he would have not got
nothing if if uh mark zuckerberg i heard
about our the idea when mark was in
college and i said that that company's
going nowhere who cares about a company
like facebook uh when jeff bezos was
doing his company i didn't think it was
gonna get very far i had some stock at
the beginning i sold it right away when
he went public so i i just think that um
you know you have to have the
willingness to persist against the
conventional wisdom
so when you think about leaders and
having the three different types of
persuasion that you talked about earlier
how does one
cultivate that how can we recapture that
spirit now
i feel like what we need is that sort of
galvanizing spirit something a bold
thought like going to the moon or
whatever
um that we can rally around
yes um well look i think uh a president
like biden uh you know maybe he can come
up with something that galvanate
galvanizes us clearly if you have a 911
event that tends to galvanize the
country the moon launch tended to
galvanize the country around that effort
the civil rights legislation tended to
galvanize the country you need something
like that i think you probably have to
have a figure who's a leader who is seen
as selfless who was seen as promoting
the country not himself that would
probably be helpful is there something
that we can focus our attention our
energies on that would galvanize us is
there anything that we could move
towards positively
or is this one of those where the
world's going to hand you what it hands
you and you just have to be prepared to
make the most of it
well things sometimes happen by
serendipity you can't anticipate a 9 11
event or things but clearly climate
change has galvanized younger people
maybe more than older people and younger
people are more concerned about it maybe
because they're going to be live longer
but i think that's something that really
has galvanized people the problem with
it is it's hard to see progress
because you can't really see the carbon
in the atmosphere and one of the
challenges with with climate change is
that it may take decades before you
actually see any real progress that's
why all the goals are we're going to do
something by the year 2050 well i'll be
101 years old and i'm not as focused on
on things but i'm 101 if i lived that
long so you need something that i think
is different as a way to kind of show
progress in a shorter period of time so
climate change is one thing but i think
um you know other kinds of things could
be done as well what's the power of
reading for you so i know that you aim
to read a hundred books a year when you
were a kid you were reading 12 books a
week which is pure insanity um
these are little children's books these
they weren't they weren't worn piece
but um reading i i came from modest
circumstances and therefore um
you know how do you ex learn the new
world what how do you learn what's out
there well reading and so reading open
vistas for me and i just found that by
reading a lot i could be informed about
things i could be a better person and i
just something i enjoy so it's a great
pleasure for me to read books and i just
you know the trick of it is i'm reading
books of things i know reasonably well
and reading history politics business uh
things like that and and so it's not
that complicated i had to read a physics
textbook or a chemistry textbook it
would take me you know a century to get
through it
now talk to me about that idea of
specializing of finding something that's
your niche um i know it seems to have
played itself out pretty perfectly in
the founding of carlisle
what is that
should we not be trying to be sort of
the best at everything
well i don't think anybody can be look i
tell people focus
the way an organization works is you get
to be known in an organization for
having one skill and whatever it might
be in carlisle's case i was not an mba
and i didn't know how to really invest
when i started it so i figured out what
can i do that would help the firm well i
would go do the fundraise and nobody
else wanted to run around the world
begging for money so i did that and i
kind of mastered that crap once you
master something people say well person
a is very good in skill a maybe person a
can do skill b and you give people a
little opportunity to do something else
then gradually you do two or three or
four more things and you get skill sets
that are transferable so today i am
doing lots of different things and i'm
not as focused as i was uh 20 years ago
but now i have developed skills in
talking or writing or or other things
that i can use and so while i'm not as
great in one thing as i would like to be
i'm doing many different things in part
because at my age if i don't do them now
when am i going to do them so i'm trying
to do you know everything before i'm you
know as i say i'm i'm rushing to the
finish line i want to get stuff done
before the time falls apart when i can't
do this stuff so my job is to stay alive
as long as i can with my brain and my
body reasonably intact
and
is that
passion you i don't remember you
actually using the word passion but you
talk a lot about
if you want to be great at something
it's going to have to be something that
you really love that you enjoy doing um
is that what keeps you because you're
quite energetic
well today because i have a fair amount
of money by normal human standards not
bill gates standards i can do anything
or i can do nothing and so i'm only
doing things that i really love doing
and so it's great pleasure except that i
only have a limited amount of time in
the day so i can't do everything as you
age you can't probably do as much as you
did when you're younger so i'm only
doing things i love but i love doing
many things interviewing writing talking
and so forth if you hate what you're
doing you'll never be successful nobody
as i've said before has ever won a nobel
prize hating what they do and do you
think you stumble into what you love is
it a process can you create that that
love and passion for something
i don't think you can call up mackenzie
or bane or bcg and say tell me what i
love and i'm going to go do that now
find something i'm going to love and let
me know what it is you have to do it
going based on your life and your
experiences your expectation your skill
set so it's just different than for
everybody you have a different set of
experiences so i happen to like reading
i happen to like uh talking to people so
i kind of said maybe i can do some
interviewing i'll read people's books
i'll interview them about their books
and that kind of worked out or i like i
just you know i'm uh interested in
learning about people's lives so i do
interviews about famous leaders or
things like that it just kind of worked
out and things evolved and sometimes
things don't work out i tried some
things in the investment area that
didn't work out as well as i would have
liked but you know you try and some
things work some things don't
now in the book how to lead you
interview some of the world's most
extraordinary business leaders leaders
really from many different walks of life
uh what were some things that surprised
you you opened the book by saying hey
here are my 13 traits of a leader this
is basically what you're going to hear
over and over
from the different leaders i'm going to
interview but i have to imagine every
now and then somebody caught you by
surprise with something
people are most animated about talking
about is their childhood and their young
uh life and what mistakes they made what
hardships they overcame because they
realize they're successful people but
they it gives a certain sense of
humility you say look i was terrible at
this but look i got better in life or i
stumbled here but look i overcame it so
people like talking about their failures
uh some people are you know willing to
just admit that they weren't perfect in
other things now there are arrogant
people that will never admit they ever
made a mistake but those aren't
generally the people i'm interviewing
so when you think about your youth and
you think about you know the mistakes
you make
some of what comes into that is framing
it how you think about failure i mean
you talk about that as one of the
important things that a leader has to be
able to do how in your life have you
um
talk to yourself about what failure
means
well i failed at lots of things and so
you just have to
say to yourself okay does the whole
world know i failed or just i know i
failed and then the whole world knows
it's a little more embarrassing
if you know then maybe you don't run
around telling everybody how much you
fail and then you realize sometimes you
fail because you made a mistake or
sometimes you don't have the ability
that you wanted to have or sometimes
there had some bad luck but everybody
has failed at something in life and if
you say you haven't failed at something
you're not being honest everybody's
failing something
now do you think that we
as the adage goes learn more from
failure than we do from success
um there's a there's a reason why that
adage has been around for a long time i
think it's true i you know if you're
successful you think this is great and i
don't have to learn anything from it but
you learn a lot from your mistakes and
i've learned a lot more from my mistakes
than the things that i did that worked
out so the things that i have done that
have worked out i've improved them so
when i started doing interviewing i
don't think i was such a great
interviewer in the first interview and
it takes a while um i make a lot of
speeches these days i wasn't such a
great speaker when i first started so
i've learned i you know improved you you
improve and if you do something you know
long enough and and you you apply
yourself to it
now when you wrote the book how to be a
leader were you bringing some of that
sensibility of what we can learn from
history of look these guys have done
these extraordinary things and i wanted
to help distill their wisdom what was
the impetus the goal is basically this
my theory is that leaders are essential
for society to move forward and not have
chaos you can't have everybody be a
leader and you can't have everybody be a
follower you have to have some leaders
and so i want to inspire younger people
to read about people that have been
successful and say i could do that or
here's what that person did i'm going to
avoid that so you really want to inspire
younger people to kind of become leaders
and that's part of what i was trying to
do
and when you think about unity um of
leadership i know one thing you're doing
with the
i i will read it as a congressional book
club i think you have a better name for
it but um
you encourage people to sort of cross
the aisle and sit next to people that
are across the aisle my first book was
about that it was called the american
story and i started a program about six
years ago where i once a month i will
bring all the members of congress to can
come about two or three two or three
hundred come each time where i will host
a reception and then a dinner and i'll
interview doris kearns goodwin or david
mccullough or somebody like that about
american history subject that is
relatively apolitical and members like
it because they get a nice meal they can
sit with people in the opposite party
which i encourage them to do and the
opposite house which they they often
don't know people from the opposite
house we don't have as many uh um
committees anymore that that are that
are conference committees and so they
like it and many people have told me
members of congress started again now we
haven't done it because of kovitz so
we're going to try to put it together
again soon in the new congress even if
covered still around we'll have a
socially distant way of doing it so
members like it a lot
and was that born of a belief that
unity comes from sort of
proximity and getting people to mix in
new ways like was that strategic or just
sort of a nice benefit
um like most things in life it was by
happenstance i had an idea of of uh
interviewing historians and i've done
that before and i said why don't we do
in front of members of congress and
maybe we can get people to come together
library congress which is a convenient
place it kind of stumbled into it and it
worked out uh maybe the food was better
than they anticipated or or i don't know
what but members seem to like it
and taking going back to the book for a
second when you begin to sort of tease
out patterns you broke people up into
different groups you have your builders
you have your creatives were there
themes that began to play out in terms
of what allows someone to have just a
really unusual level of success
well i think in the end it's uh
persistence is more important than
anything else and having a desire to do
something you want to prove something so
you have a vision of where you want to
go you're willing to persist and
overcome that's probably the key thing
and then again having other qualities
learning how to talk learning how to
write learning how to be set an example
there are many different things but in
the end you have to have a vision of
where you want to go you have to persist
in it you have to be willing to overcome
failures and not be afraid of making a
mistake
well david
with that i think that's a pretty strong
place to wrap up
where can people engage with you more
where can they get the book
what actually i think you can buy the
book any place i think and order it
online and
all the proceeds go to johns hopkins
children's center so it's it's a
non-profit operation for me but i want
to thank you for uh giving me the time
and i uh like your decor there and the
batman in the back and everything quite
nice so batman is your role model right
yes that that would be a very fair thing
that we could get into a whole thing
about that but uh as a quick answer yes
thanks a lot appreciate it thank you
david guys if you haven't already be
sure to dive into his world it is really
extraordinary the way that he's bringing
people together i think is amazing his
insights into leadership and what he's
gleaned from other people is really
really phenomenal i think you're going
to be deeply blown away and speaking of
being blown away if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe and until next time
my friends be legendary take care
you can never let the success
make you think that you're
better than anybody else or or more
successful than the next guy
and the same thing about your failures
you shouldn't think that your failure to
make you any less
a person than the next person